Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today
Subtitles by explosiveskull
It is but one life,
whether we spend it
in loving or in weeping.
High up the mountain,
where the coffee grows,
is an island within an island.
A place where many Japanese
came to work and live
in pursuit of a new life.
A young boy of mixed race
was left an orphan,
when a foreign sickness
struck the island.
To protect that boy,
his unwed mother had hid him
from the small community
of coffee pickers,
who believed such children
brought shame and bad luck.
No one knew
that the child existed.
This terrible disease
did not discriminate
between race and class.
Mr. Danielson,
the plantation owner,
was forever changed upon the
passing of his beloved wife.
On that very sad day,
I became the guardian
of Miss Grace.
And so, two children
from very different worlds
were both left
without their mothers.
Hey, kid!
Hey, you shouldn't be
near that body.
It's not safe. Hey!
A very good morning.
Excuse me! There's gotta be
a better alternative
than beating the kid senseless.
Here.
This should cover you
for whatever the kid owes you.
Now, let's have a look at you,
young man.
Let me take a look at ya, kid.
Hey, take it easy
with that stuff.
It's fragile.
Half?
I sailed 2,500 miles
at my own expense,
I bounced all the way up
this blasted mountain,
and now you're telling me
I'm only gonna be making half
of what was agreed upon
in writing?
I'd like to speak
to Mr. Danielson.
I'm his plantation foreman.
I speak for him.
Coffee market
drives everything here.
Right now the whole mountain
is in the middle of cutbacks.
All right, when's the next boat
leaving for the mainland?
A month.
A month?
I just about spent everything
I had getting here.
Listen, we need a doctor.
We've lost many to the plague,
including Mrs. Danielson
just two days ago.
How about I work in
a housing arrangement
and some store credit?
All right.
Look, just pay me
what you can for the month,
and I'll see if I can make do.
If not, I take
the next boat back.
Uh, the accommodations
aren't what you're used to.
That's fine.
Oh, no.
Hold on, hold on!
This place is a dump.
How am I supposed
to get back to town?
- Jitensha.
- What?
Jitensha.
- Morning, Doc.
- Morning, Mayor.
How do you like the Kona coffee?
The coffee's fine.
I'm not too happy with
the stench at my new place.
What's with that kid?
I don't know.
He just showed up
out of nowhere.
It's your lucky day.
His wife is sick.
All right, well,
what are the symptoms?
Wife not breathing.
Some of these folks
may need convincing
when it comes to
modern medicine.
That's all right.
I've spent time in the Orient.
My Lord.
Is that the thing that bit her?
Anaphylaxis.
Okay, she had
an allergic reaction.
This is adrenalin.
She needs it,
or she's gonna die.
Trust me. It's gonna help.
It's not an option.
You idiot.
You stupid fool.
You, boy!
Come here, boy. You!
Come on, I don't have time
to play games.
Come here.
I need your help.
Explain to this man
that his wife
is going to die
if she doesn't get
an injection.
Hey!
Shut up, shut up, shut up!
Come on, you can speak,
can't ya? Tell him.
He wishes me to leave.
Hafu bring bad luck.
Ah, go on.
Listen to me.
I got another one like this.
My house is the last one
off the main road
on the left-hand side,
you can't miss it.
There's a red fence
in front, got it?
Baggu.
My house.
You understand?
What the hell was I thinking?
Run, boy.
Come on, kid.
Attaboy.
Hey.
It's all right, kid.
I'm a doctor.
Okay.
That should do the trick.
I can't have my first patient
dying on me, can I?
Yeah, breathe.
You can let him out.
Here you go.
So, kid,
what's your name?
Your name, so I'll know
what to call you.
Jo.
Jo. Hmm.
Joseph?
Just Jo.
All right, Jo.
All this mountain climbing
is making me hungry.
What do you say we go back to
town and get something to eat?
So...
how did
the first doctoring go?
Well, she's gonna make it.
That's good.
Thanks to this little youngster
right here.
I see.
Kid, why don't you tell us
where you're from,
so we can help you?
Up mauka, the mountain?
Where's your parents?
Mother, father?
Miyo Watanabe?
Mama.
She lived alone,
high up in the mountains
on the other side
of the valley.
She picked alone,
was a bit of a recluse.
We lost her to the plague.
I didn't know she had a kid.
She hid you all this time?
And why would she do that?
Because he's probably...
Because he's probably
a bastard.
Some fling with a haole,
and now he's a hafu boy.
Japs thinks he brings shame
to anyone he's near.
I really wish people
would stop using that word.
Maybe some family
in the mainland would take him.
Let me guess.
Boat leaves when,
in a month?
All right, kid, come on.
You're gonna live with me.
Hey, kid, you got anything
up there worth keeping?
There's nothing to worry about.
Disease,
it dies with the victim.
Okay, kid, let's go.
Is that your mother?
I've lost family.
It's a terrible thing.
But you gotta
keep on going, right?
I'll be outside.
Take your time.
Good morning.
Looks like the whole family's
hard at work.
You can call me Doc,
and this is Jo.
Hafu boy.
Not too sociable.
Come on, kid.
Morning.
Ahem!
Hello!
I'm the new doctor
for the plantation.
I wanted to take
this opportunity
to introduce myself.
Translate, please.
Louder!
Louder, so they can hear you.
I would bow a proper
Japanese introduction,
but I have a bad back
from the war.
I can barely tie my shoes
in the morning.
That's all right.
Did you get it all out?
- Yes.
- Okay.
Now, if any of you
or your loved ones
are sick or get hurt,
you just see Jo,
and he'll come get me.
Okay.
Back to work.
You know, Jo,
you seem pretty smitten
with the big man's
pretty daughter.
These girls get
prettier and prettier,
and, uh,
the prettier they get,
the crazier they get.
That's right, crazy.
Let's go.
Time flies like an arrow.
As time passed,
so did the disease
that plagued our island.
And under the guidance of Doc,
a former outcast
grew into a young man
and a valuable member
of our small community.
A friendly rivalry grew
between Taki the driver,
and Jo the medicine runner.
A daily event that the whole
community looked forward to.
Whoa, whoa, whoa.
Hyah!
Hyah! Hup! Hup!
Hyah! Hup!
Hyah! Hyah!
Ah!
Each morning,
Mr. Danielson's daughter,
Grace,
would watch from her window
high up on the hill.
It was on this day
that a simple injury
set in motion
a series of events
that would change
our little town forever.
Shut that thing off
before you burn the place down!
Sir, we should consider
selling off assets,
starting from
some of this machinery.
The bank is losing patience.
And who exactly
would buy this machinery?
We could sell the cinema.
The cinema
has a broken projector.
Look, I'm not selling anything.
You need to buy me some time.
I don't care how you do it!
What is it, Miss Hanabusa?
Is Grace all right?
Miss Grace
has sprained her ankle.
I believe she should
see the doctor.
A trip to Hilo isn't exactly
necessary for a sprained ankle.
I mean Dr. Lawrence.
He could come to the house.
Have I not made myself clear
how I feel about
that country doctor?
Do you have any idea
how many germs
he must be carrying around,
treating all these people?
Miss Grace also has
a slight fever.
- Maybe just the ankle.
- A fever?
Perhaps we can take
certain precautions
for the examination.
Fine.
Miss Grace has hurt her ankle.
May the doctor
please come examine it?
Miss Grace?
Well, uh, the doctor's
left for Hilo on the train.
He's picking up
a pharmaceutical order.
He's gonna be back
in two days.
I see.
We will just have
to wait until then.
Wait.
I am very qualified
to tend to such emergencies.
Doc has been training me
for many years, and...
he's asked me to represent him
while he's gone.
Oh, okay.
Really?
Okay, um...
I'm gonna go get my bag.
Dr. Lawrence, you've
clearly been told multiple times
that the Racial Integrity
Guidelines
are in place to discourage
interracial adoption.
That combined with the lack of
any sort of birth certificate,
makes this a practically
impossible case.
Might I suggest you reach out
to the Japanese Consulate,
where they can help find
parents for the boy?
You know, of his own kind.
Listen, Gray.
Uh, sir.
As you're well aware,
I have been trying for years
to adopt this kid,
give him some sort
of legal standing.
I believe this young man
has the makings of a physician,
and I intend to do
everything within my power
to make that happen.
Well, it's extremely unlikely,
but I suppose we could appeal
to the Child Welfare League
in Honolulu.
You'll have to cover the cost
of the trip, my expenses,
a fee to prioritize this case
over everything else.
It's gonna be quite
the tidy sum, Dr. Lawrence.
Even then, I cannot guarantee
that they will give
a favorable outcome
or even review your case.
This is everything I've got.
Make it a priority.
Thank you for coming.
Please wait here.
No!
She can't walk.
I'm afraid it could cause
permanent damage.
The young man has been
learning under Doc for years.
Absolutely out of the question.
I don't even want him
on our front porch,
let alone Grace's bedroom.
Send that boy away!
I'm sorry, but...
Wait here.
Grace, what happened?
- Are you all right?
- I fell.
I thought I could walk,
but it is really painful.
Fine, all right, fine.
Miss Hanabusa,
go and fetch the boy.
Given the exceptional
circumstances,
I'm allowing limited access
to see if you can bring some
relief to my daughter's pain.
I must be out of my mind.
I have urgent business
to attend to.
Sir.
Grace, please show
our young doctor your ankle.
That is all that is injured,
and that is all you need to see.
Uh, miss, could you
put pressure on it?
I don't think it's broken.
It's, uh...
Yeah, I believe it's sprained.
That is good to hear.
I'll give a report back to Doc
as soon as he returns.
Thank you for your service, Jo.
I will see you out.
Bye.
You're an assistant.
You know very well
not to treat anybody
without me being present.
And why is that?
I think I...
You jeopardize
your entire future.
I mean, suppose
something went wrong?
And you did it with
Danielson's daughter, huh?
What are you thinking?
I leave town
for a couple days...
It was just
a sprained ankle, Doc.
I thought I was doing
the right thing.
Yeah, you thought you were
doing the right thing.
You thought you were ready.
I didn't think you were ready.
Evidently, Danielson doesn't
think that you're ready.
He sent word to Hilo.
They're bringing in
another doctor.
Yeah, that's right.
When are you gonna
learn to trust me?
Out of my chair.
When are you gonna trust me?
I still can't believe
they let you in this place.
They've never let me
in this joint.
I'm not sure if it's
a rich haole thing,
but they got some
pretty strange rules.
Yeah, I'm sure they do.
Look, let's just show 'em
that you're a...
Well, you're a qualified
assistant.
Let me have a look at you.
Tuck in your shirt.
And that I'm a proper doctor.
For the record,
I'm still mad at you.
Let's go.
Let's see the princess, okay?
Morning, Mrs. Danielson.
Miss Grace?
Come in.
Is, uh, Mr. Danielson in?
He is engaged elsewhere.
I was given specific
instructions, however.
Oh, I see.
What do we have here?
Okay.
So, young lady,
how's that leg of yours today?
Well, my leg's
doing a bit better,
but now my stomach's
not feeling too well.
I see.
Mine too.
Pardon me?
What?
Oh, um, nothing, Doc.
Something going around, perhaps.
Yeah, okay.
How shall we proceed then?
Is it the stomach
you wish to see or...
I'm sorry, Miss Hanabusa,
but this just isn't practical.
I understand,
but please do hurry.
Won't take but a jiffy.
Now...
let's a have a look at
that ankle, missy, shall we?
- Is it sensitive?
- Yeah.
Mm-hmm.
That's nice work.
How about that?
How's it feel if I do that?
Still a bit painful.
It's a sprain, all right.
What about that
secondary condition?
How do you recommend
we proceed, Jo?
Well?
Huh. Hmm.
Um...
Have you had any vomiting
or diarrhea?
No.
Well, if you would
hold out your wrists, miss,
I, uh, I'm gonna
check your pulse.
It's, uh...
a little faster than normal.
You know, perhaps
you should take her temperature.
Um...
Yes, of course.
Jo, not that.
Here it is.
So I will be
placing this under...
uh, your tongue,
if that's all right with you.
And, uh, we just gotta
wait a moment.
- Okay, that's long enough.
- Oh, yeah.
Well, what does it say?
Oh.
She has no temperature.
Ah, for she...
No temperature.
Dead.
Uh, no fever.
What does she have?
Probably just a bug or nerves.
Nerves, huh?
Well, is there anything
that we can give her?
Maybe we could
give her some herbs?
Something like that?
Basil.
We can give her some basil.
Um...
Turn these basil leaves
into a tea,
and, uh, if you've got
a ginger root,
it'll help with her stomach.
Thank you, doctors.
Thank you.
- Uh, Miss Hanabusa, I...
- Thank you.
- Keep that elevated.
- I will.
Thank you, Doctor.
Jo will drop off
some more herbs tomorrow.
Please do greet Mr. Danielson
for us, would you?
I will. Thank you again.
Thank you.
So?
So what?
How do you think you performed?
Decisive? Confident?
- I was fine, I guess.
- You were a babbling simpleton.
Okay, that's not
really fair, Doc.
I saw the way you were looking
at the girl, okay?
Look, doctoring requires focus,
emotional self-control,
and discipline.
You're not a kid anymore.
All right, after you
drop off those herbs,
meet me at the coffee mill.
When you get to the house,
ring the bell,
hand the herbs
to Miss Hanabusa.
Don't engage with any of
the other family members
and stay out of the house,
you got it?
- Yeah, I got it.
- You got what?
Ring the bell,
hand the herbs to Miss Hanabusa,
and I'll meet you
at the coffee mill.
Okay.
And fix the hinges
on that door.
Good morning, boy.
Could you tell me
where the Danielson home is?
Yeah, it's about
a 30-minute walk that way.
Speak up. I can't hear ya.
It's about a 30-minute walk
that way!
All right, silly boy.
Not for me, it's not.
Damn contraption.
No, no, no,
that won't be necessary.
We have a real doctor here.
Grace!
This is Dr. Reyes.
He recently moved to Hilo
from the mainland.
He's here to offer us
a second opinion.
Hello, Miss Grace.
Why, aren't you
a true beauty.
She is.
How may I be of service, hmm?
She should be fine
with those pills.
I would, however,
like to check on her again.
Of course.
Why don't you stay for lunch?
How generous of you.
That would be lovely.
Grace is lucky to have
such a quality doctor.
She certainly is.
Oh, for God's sake.
What's he doing here?
Good morning, Mr. Danielson,
Miss Danielson.
Doc asked me to come by
and drop off some more herbs
for Miss Grace.
No, no, no, no,
that won't be necessary.
Miss Grace is now under the care
of a proper physician.
You and the Doc
may take care of the Orientals
and the other laborers.
Dr. Reyes will be taking care
of the rest of us.
Yes, sir.
Oh!
♪ It's up to me
It's up to me ♪
- Wonderful that you're staying.
- Great day!
May I, Mrs. Danielson?
- Oh, please do.
- Let's work up an appetite.
Oh, my!
I haven't danced like this
for years.
Look, I, uh...
brought these for you.
Thank you.
Come with me.
It's okay.
Come on, Jo.
Uh, I'm Jo.
Yeah, I know.
I'm Grace.
I know.
- You have...
- So what's...
Sorry.
- Um, you first.
- Okay.
What's your favorite part
of the island?
Well, I, uh...
I love to go up
to the top of mountain.
- You should go.
- Yeah, I'll go.
But first,
just close your eyes.
And, uh...
just hold...
very...
still.
What is it?
Foreclosure.
How could you let this happen?
I told you to buy me more time,
you stupid man.
I tried, sir.
I did exactly as you told me to.
Oh, I... I just have to...
You enjoy yourself.
Oh, yeah, yeah, go, go.
Miss Grace, what are you
doing down here?
Oh, um, I'm just getting
a few flowers for my room.
Why, I also invested
all of my private savings
and mortgaged my home.
It is all gone now.
I, too, am ruined.
You are ruined?
What do you even have
to be ruined?
Get out!
What is it, son?
Everything okay?
It's fine, Mother.
I have to go to Hilo tomorrow
to sort out an issue
with the bank.
Do not patronize me.
Now tell me
what the hell's going on.
The bank is repossessing
the plantation, the businesses,
the buildings in town,
all of it in 30 days.
We're going to be
cast out into the street.
No. I put the house
in Grace's name,
Miss Hanabusa
as her official guardian.
The bank's can't touch it.
How could you let this happen?
I can't control
the world coffee market, Mother.
I did what I had to do.
And while you,
you have been guzzling gin,
I have been fighting every day
to keep this plantation,
this town alive!
Keep your voice down.
Oh...
Think what people will say.
Surely...
Surely there's some way
we can fix this.
It would take a miracle.
Oh, Nana?
I beg your pardon.
Lovey, come for a spin.
Grace, I'm delighted that you
have made a full recovery.
That's the magic
of modern medicine.
You look fantastic.
When I was checking on you,
I noticed that
you fancy fashion.
So I brought you something
that I think
you just might like.
This is a fashion magazine.
Straight off the ship
from the mainland.
Mr. Danielson.
Goodness gracious.
It's for you.
Thank you, Dr. Reyes.
Not at the table, Grace.
You're too generous, Doctor.
Maybe one day
she'll be able to visit
the fashion capitals
of the world, like I have.
Paris is simply...
It's magical.
I'm so... silly.
So, Danielson,
how is business these days?
The truth is,
the Japanese independent farmers
are driving down
the price of coffee.
Unbelievable.
The damn lava rocks don't
allow us to farm sugar up here.
Thankfully,
I've found ways to diversify,
and the business
couldn't be better.
Why, that is good to hear.
Speaking of diversifying,
you should consider opening
an office here on the Kona side.
Expand your practice.
You could work
out of one of my buildings.
That's a kind offer, sir,
but don't you already
have a doctor here?
- Dr. Lawrence?
- Mm-hmm.
Well, his country medicine
works for our pickers,
but I see a real need
for proper medical attention
for the genteel folk.
Thank you, sir.
I just may take you up on it.
Well, how about
you stay another day,
and I'll show you
some options to consider?
Only if I can come by
for another visit
to check on
my most lovely patient.
Oh, yes, please do, Doctor.
Such wonderful people.
Boy.
- Um...
- May I help you?
Sorry, sir, it's just
your motorcar's something else.
Yes, it is.
I tried racing you back there,
but you left me in the dust.
That was you? Hah!
You didn't even have a chance.
I run medicine for Doc
all over this mountain,
and I've never been beaten
until you.
Interesting.
Perhaps you'd like to be
on a winning team...
and go for an evening ride.
Kinda nice, huh?
What do you do about your
patients that don't have roads?
Well, all my patients
have roads.
It's the magic
of modern medicine...
at its best.
Um, would you be willing
to teach me?
I could be your assistant.
I'd work for free.
I've been running for Doc for...
I don't even know
how many years.
Years you say, huh?
Well, I could use some help
setting up the new office,
fetching supplies and such.
Local knowledge
could come in handy.
Yeah, I could do all of that.
Absolutely.
But I could also assist you
in doctoring.
I've treated Miss Grace
Danielson three times now,
and I'm getting
quite good at it.
You say you treated
Grace Danielson?
Yeah. Well, the third time
wasn't an official treatment.
Boy, do you have a crush
on the Danielsons' daughter?
Mmm!
That's as likely to work out
as you outrunning this car!
All right, we will meet
in the morning at the hotel.
But first you must drink up.
Put some hair on your chest.
Impress the Danielson daughter.
Oh.
At least I know
where you were.
You were supposed to be
running medicine for me,
not gallivanting
with the competition.
Well, he's offered to teach me
modern techniques.
Modern techniques?
Why do you keep trying
to stop me from doctoring?
- Are you drunk?
- Mm-hmm.
Or are you just stupid
or maybe both?
The only thing
I'm trying to keep is our jobs.
Okay, now I'm going to bed.
Enjoy riding your bicycle.
I'm gonna be in a Ford Model T
with four wheels.
Your bicycle has two.
Two wheels.
Four wheels is better.
Yes.
Thank you.
Ah!
Boy, it is good
that you are here.
Today you will learn
from the best.
We have an emergency.
Now, you do speak
Japanese, right?
- Yes, sir.
- Open the door, please.
And start the engine.
Thank you.
Here you are.
Let's go, go, go!
Right.
Hold. Thank you.
So there's been an emergency
at the coffee mill.
The man we're going to see
is refusing to speak English.
Did I ask you
if you spoke Japanese?
Yes, sir, yes, you did, sir.
Hey!
Out of the way!
Ring the bell, boy.
Get off the road!
I'm a doctor!
Out of the way!
Dusted him!
Good riddance!
These people...
What the hell is he doing here?
The message said the patient
was only speaking Japanese,
which the boy understands.
I assume he has your trust,
having treated your daughter.
Well, follow me.
It's my accountant.
Now, just fix him.
He means a lot to the company.
How long has he
been this way?
About an hour or so.
Well, what's he saying, boy?
What's he saying?
He wishes to die.
Fugu. Puffer fish poison.
It's an honorable suicide.
Nonsense.
We're going to save him.
Come here. Look, boy.
Hold him.
Boy, the smelling salts
to revive him.
Sir, shouldn't we use the
charcoal to bind the poison?
Right. Get me some.
Steady now.
Yes.
Maybe if we can get him
to vomit, sir?
What do you think
I was trying to do?
Damn it.
Excuse me, sir, may I try?
Yeah, have at it.
And?
I'm afraid we may have
been too late.
Your man has taken
a heavy does of poison.
So sorry.
Looks like the charcoal's
finally kicked in.
I assume this is some sort
of crazy Jap tradition?
It's meant to avoid
shame for the family.
It's a coward's way out
for a Nip, if you ask me.
Read it.
Troubled marriage.
Best not to pry.
Go on, off you go.
Come.
Find a new translator.
That boy can't be trusted.
I couldn't agree with you more.
Hmmph!
Great day.
It's gonna be a great day.
I don't think
this is gonna work.
I hate to take Doc's best man.
Gray, Gray,
listen to me, okay?
We've been through this before.
This isn't about
legal precedent.
It's not about bureaucracy.
This is about a boy
who deserves a future.
Your loyalty
is admirable, Dr. Lawrence,
- but this is impossible.
- Please, Mr. Gray, please.
- Make it happen.
- Dr. Law...
And for dessert, my dear,
we have your favorite:
mango pie with cream.
This is a very special occasion.
Today I talked with Dr. Reyes,
and we had a very important
conversation
that concerns us all.
Okay.
The distinguished doctor
has taken an interest in you,
my dear.
Quite flattering.
He lost his wife
to typhoid 10 years ago
and has been seeking
a replacement for some time.
Thank you.
A replacement?
A replacement, yes.
To be his wife.
Well, he's twice my age.
You can't mean that I...
Dr. Reyes is clearly
a man of means and status.
You'd be lucky
to wed such a man,
regardless of what
his birthdate is.
You think I wanted
to marry your grandfather?
After the marriage,
he plans to invest
in the plantation.
He has his own money.
Family money, of course.
I'm sure he
didn't need to become a doctor.
No, he just wanted
to serve his fellow man.
An admirable quality.
I'm off to Hilo tomorrow
to inform the banks.
The doctor will be
calling on you.
He says he has
a surprise for us all.
Please be ready.
- A miracle.
- Ah.
A miracle.
A miracle?
You think that selling your
only daughter off is a miracle?
Gra...
What a rude, ungrateful child!
Whatever happens, Miss Grace,
I'll be here with you.
Dr. Reyes will be here soon.
I got something for you.
Up from the valley peak.
It is the most beautiful place.
The ocean is so blue,
and it goes on forever.
And I promise
I'll take you there someday.
Um...
Yeah.
Naupaka flower.
They're beautiful.
Do you know the story?
Well, two of them together
make a whole flower.
They're only by the sea
and way up mauka.
Never in-between.
They're named after a princess
who fell in love
with a commoner.
And for that,
they were banished.
One by the sea,
and one up the mountain.
Banished.
There's gotta be a way
we can shorten the distance
between the mountain
and the ocean.
Jo...
What's wrong?
Father found a match for me.
It's the new doctor.
Dr. Reyes.
The wedding's in two weeks
at Grandmother's
favorite picnic spot.
He comes from a rich family
in the mainland,
and Father says that it might be
the last opportunity
that my family gets.
You have to go.
Grace, Grace, get over here.
Quick, sit down.
Ah.
Good evening.
Allow me to introduce you
to my daughter Helen.
You must be Grace.
I've heard so much about you.
Here you are, love.
Yes, there you are, Grace.
Oh, yes, would you like
to sit down?
Indeed, help yourself.
Mmm! I will.
You have a very beautiful home.
I can't wait to move in.
Relax, honey.
We just got here.
That's a lovely color on you.
Right! Who would like
some coffee?
- Oh, yes.
- I would love some.
Good idea. Coffee.
- Mm, mm, mm, mm!
- Thank you.
Volcano's at it again.
Yeah.
Hmm.
Danielson girl?
Her father is gonna marry her
off to that rich haole.
There's nothing
I can do about it.
It's like I didn't even exist.
You know,
I'm sorry to hear that.
But I wouldn't give up,
if I were you.
No way.
It's not over yet.
If you're meant
to be with Grace,
it's gonna happen.
Trust me.
Tomorrow...
Tomorrow's wind will blow.
And blow it did.
On certain days,
the trade winds would
carry the volcanic gasses
to our side of the island.
We call this
white blanket "vog."
Doc and Jo were quite busy
on these trying days.
These people
should be home.
They shouldn't be
breathing this in.
If they lose their crops,
they lose their jobs.
Keep it coming, Jo.
This is peppermint oil.
Breathe it in.
Good work, Jo.
Let's get outta here.
We wouldn't be in the is mess
if you'd taken better care
of your wagon.
I hate this place.
Foggiest day of the year,
and I'm stuck up here with you.
I'm gonna miss my train.
I'm supposed to be
in Hilo by tonight,
and I'm gonna miss my train.
Go on, get out of...
- Just get out of the way!
- Mr. Danielson!
Oh!
Mr. Danielson!
No! No!
Mr. Danielson?
Mr. Danielson!
Danielson?
What's that?
Okay, okay,
I got it, I got it.
All right, what happened?
He fell from up there.
I think his leg's broken.
It's not the leg
I'm worried about.
Mr. Danielson,
where does your head hurt?
Subdural hematoma is my guess.
Not good.
Run and get Reyes.
We're gonna need
that contraption of his
to get him outta here.
I'm on it.
Run.
Reyes! Reyes!
Hey!
We need help!
What's all the ruckus, boy?
Mr. Danielson is injured!
We need your motorcar!
I've got this one, madam.
Danielson, hang in there.
Doc? Doc!
I got Reyes!
Good God, man.
At least get the gentleman
out of the dirt.
Dirt isn't the problem here.
This man has a brain hemorrhage.
His head wound
doesn't look significant.
He indicated pain
at the front of his skull,
which is the opposite side
of the head injury.
Yes, but you're
leaping to conclusions.
Stop wasting time and help me
move him to your motorcar!
Carefully.
Let's go.
Get these people
out of here.
Nice and level.
Gently.
You, boy,
get me my medical case now.
Doc, Doc, Doc, Doc.
If we don't relieve
the pressure on the brain,
we might lose him.
No. Compound fracture is first.
- Before he comes to.
- Absolutely not!
Craniotomy first.
What? You're gonna
drill into the man's head?
That's primeval.
I should say so.
Yeah.
Where's that damn idiot kid
with my medical case?
Thank you!
No, not you.
Don't touch me.
Father, they're trying
to help you!
Grace...
Grace, I'm so sorry.
Please. I love you. Go.
You heard the man.
Please leave now.
This man has every sign
of swelling on the brain.
Continued head pain,
slurred speech.
Look at his pupils,
for crying out loud!
You will not
bore a hole in his head.
My son is in good hands
with Dr. Reyes.
That's right.
We don't need a backwoods
country hick!
Hallelujah. Now get your things
and get the hell out.
Okay.
I'll leave,
but under professional protest.
Let's go.
Okay, let's move him up now.
Let's go, let's go.
No, you shouldn't
elevate his head!
Out of here!
You get out.
You, you quack.
Get out!
Quack.
Let's go, Jo.
We'll be outside
if you need us.
We're fine now.
Let's get to his leg.
He's gone.
What happened?
Dr. Reyes said
it was internal injury.
Lying fool.
Hmm.
So sorry for your loss, madam.
If only I'd been first
at the scene...
Not your fault, Doctor.
Well, I should give you
some time alone with him.
Sorry.
Grace.
Grace?
You need to go inside now.
Grace!
We really must.
Dr. Reyes.
Um...
about the wedding.
Yes.
Well, I guess
we should reschedule.
Heavens no. I...
I think we should
make it even sooner now.
We need a man
about the house,
and someone
to run the business.
Lovey, you are
the light of good news
in the midst of
such dark sorrow.
Helen, Mrs. Danielson's asked
to move up the wedding date.
Grace will need your help now
more than ever.
Of course, Father,
but I think there's something
you both should see right now.
Grace...
we need to go inside now.
What is going on out here?
Grace, come inside.
You're not well.
I'm staying with Jo.
Get your hands off her!
Mrs. Danielson...
my intentions are honorable.
Honorable?
Get away from
Dr. Reyes' fiancée.
You don't even have a last name.
Now, just a second,
Mrs. Danielson.
- Jo's trying to do the right thing.
- Shut up!
This has nothing to do with you.
I don't wanna marry him.
I wanna be with Jo.
You will never talk
like that again
in front of your future husband.
Do you hear me?
Long walk home.
It seems you have
some competition, Father.
I'll take care of it.
You just keep an eye on Grace.
I need to go to Hilo
first thing in the morning to...
converse with Ford about...
the back payments.
We can't have our vehicle
being repossessed
on my wedding day.
Do you actually care
for this one, Father?
It doesn't matter.
No, I suppose not.
Do you, um...
Do you think
we could've saved him?
Yes, I think so.
- I guess it doesn't matter now.
- It does matter!
'Cause you did good.
You stayed cool, and you
stayed focused under pressure,
and I'm proud of you.
And you proved to me that...
you are ready
to assist me in doctoring.
Yeah, but Grace
lost her father.
You can't let her lose you.
Do whatever it takes,
but you can't let that girl go.
What chance do I really have?
You heard what
Mrs. Danielson said.
I don't even have a last name.
Mrs. Danielson.
You can't allow Mrs. Danielson
to define who you are.
Doc, I'm an illegitimate
bastard.
That is not true!
You're my son!
Maybe not legally,
but you'll always be
a better man
than that pompous
poser of a doctor.
Believe that!
Speak of the devil himself.
What is that idiot
trying to prove now?
Look out!
Doc?
- What should I do?
- Jo!
I'm gonna run and get help.
No.
Not even you're that fast, Jo.
No, no, no.
You killed Doc.
You murderer!
As the only licensed doctor
on this side of the island,
my official report
will conclude...
this man was drunk,
he fell, he hit his head
on a rock.
No witnesses.
As you hope to live,
you will leave this town,
never to return.
Or you will be next.
Doc!
Even when
months and days are long,
life is short.
We all mourned the death
of Mr. Danielson and Doc
in our own way.
Oh, I love this place.
Grace, when the good doctor
arrives,
please be cheerful.
You do remember how
to be cheerful, don't you?
Of course she does.
Jo?
So you're the elusive Jo.
Charles Gray, Attorney at Law.
Trust me when I say
this is a miracle.
Grace.
Miss Hanabusa, please,
go check on the flowers.
I will tend to Grace.
Coming through!
Yahoo!
What?
Damn kid.
Damn!
My father's motorcar
should arrive any minute now.
There he is.
Remember what
your grandmother said.
Remember to smile.
Miss Grace,
someone else is coming.
What do you mean,
someone else is coming?
Grace!
Run, Jo, run.
Damn it.
Look out!
You, you...
You've ruined all this.
- Grandmother, please.
- You!
What right have you
to even be here?
Who the hell
do you think you are?
Jo Lawrence.
I'm the legally adopted son
of Dr. Elias Lawrence.
Mrs. Danielson!
Please.
Mrs. Danielson, I have a name,
and I am of legal standing.
I've come here today to...
ask for your hand in marriage.
Even though Jo
is now entitled,
Miss. Danielson has not yet
come of age to be married.
Consent from a legal guardian
is required.
Yeah, mm-hmm.
Consent is given.
What?
As her acting legal guardian
looking after her best interest,
I accept the proposal
on behalf of Miss Grace.
You'll do no such thing!
That is if she wishes to accept.
No!
No, she's mine.
The house and the plantation...
are mine.
We're gonna be married,
sweetheart.
We had an agreement.
Yeah. Danielson.
The Danielson family is,
I'm sorry to say,
bankrupt!
What?
What are you looking at me for?
All that remains
is the house,
and that is in Grace's name.
Grace's name?
You charlatans!
Bankruptcy!
Father!
- Bankruptcy!
- Father!
- You half-Jap mutt.
- Father, Father!
You're all a bunch of
Nip lovers, aren't ya?
Don't you see it?
The Japs are taking over!
Father! Father!
There's nothing here for us.
Could you
give my car a push?
Fall down seven times,
stand up eight.
The bank did foreclose.
The town and the plantation
were subdivided
and auctioned off,
and the so-called Dr. Reyes
was arrested for murder.
Our town got a new clinic
and a new doctor.
And I...
I remained in the service
of the young doctor
and his wonderful wife
for many good years.
Subtitles by explosiveskull
Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from www.OpenSubtitles.org